                                            Podium Check Form 


	This semester when our team first started looking at ideas of a way we should take our project it was not an easy 
process. We started off just spitballing ideas to each other and nothing ever really stuck with any of us, so in the event of 
just needing to get started we came up with the idea to have a desktop application that would generate backgrounds for games, 
movies, etc. In the beginning none of us really loved the idea and it showed as no one seemed to be interested enough to work 
on it and commit anything to the project. However, looking back now it was a blessing in disguise, one of our group members had
done some digging with 3D libraries in python and java script and came to the conclusion that this idea may have been a little 
over our heads. It seemed that making a whole website and an application based on this idea was going to take a lot longer than 
a semester as we would have to teach ourselves how to use these libraries in our code while learning web development at the same 
time. With all of this information we were back to square one when Nick Nolt had come up with the idea to make a website/form for 
the IT department that made the podium checks go a lot smoother. This idea would stick with us as we felt this could be something 
that could actually contribute to the college and live on past us, which is what we were really looking for.
    During this project what made us all really interested in this web application was the purpose. We took on this project 
because we knew this would be an actual use for the college and specifically the IT department. This site’s functional purpose 
was to create a form so podium checks would be a lot more organized and easier to navigate from the admin and user side. To 
fulfill this purpose we as a team successfully made a calendar that shows the student who they were working with for the day 
and what room they would be in to conduct the podium check. After the student had that information the two would go to the room 
and start filling out the form making sure everything that needed to be checked was documented. After they were done with the room 
they would hit submit and the data from that form would now be stored in the database for the admin to see. The admin side was made 
so they could add and delete users, see the data coming from the forms being submitted by the employees to see how the technology 
is holding up, and lastly modify room attributes on the form. So with these factors that go into our website we absolutely achieved 
our purpose for the project as well as the functionality for it as well. 
    The user stories in this project are really simple actually considering the only people who would be using this site are people 
who work in IT. Specifically there are two different cases in which this site would be used, first there is an admin who is able to 
have a little more accessibility with using the site where they can modify the forms, see all of the users, and look at data from 
the forms. The users on this site are only able to access the form and see the calendar with the job they had for the day and who 
works with them on the job. Here is what our user stories looked like, “							

                                                    [Admin]
“As the admin I want to be able to have a form that gives me the ability to easily track room attributes for different rooms and 
their displays. With this form we can check various aspects including things like lamp usage, projector runtimes, and overall room usage. ”

The administration from IT can use this form and database to make the classroom check easier by having one place to store all information 
about the room and its usage, to easier track when components are nearing their end of life cycle.

                                            [Normal Users/ITS student workers]

“As a student this form will help me be able to check and see if there are any issues with any of the technology that the podium is using 
like the projector lamp, audio, and DVD player so that it can be fixed and the data can be easily stored."

The student aspect of the form would be helpful so that IT workers can look at these forms and know what problems are going on with the 
podium and what would need to be fixed. This is just an easier way to go about fixing these issues for the school.”
    Some of the key problems our team ran into had to do with time conflicts regarding getting the whole team to meet at a place to go 
over whatever was on the agenda for the day, working with the database and implementing the APIs, and time management. First one of the 
biggest issues we had was getting everyone’s schedule to align so we could meet as a team. This may not seem like that big of a deal but 
looking back at the work we were able to accomplish, the best version of it always happened when we were all together as a team. I think 
this was due to the fact that when we were all together and someone had an issue there were three other team members there to give immediate 
feedback and help, however when we were not together it was more of figuring things out on your own with trial and error. Using text and 
calling only worked and went so far when that person was not there with you to actually see the issue, obviously. Second, implementing APIs 
and using the database was a little bit of a challenge for us just because it was something new and while three of us were taking web 
development at the same time, we were learning while building the site so implementing these attributes was a lot more of just multiple 
tries and figuring out the issues. If all of us had the prior knowledge then putting the APIs and using the database with our site probably 
wouldn't have taken as much time to implement. Lastly, our time management began to become sort of an issue because of us switching projects 
so late. Looking at the project, there are still a couple features we wanted to add before handing it off to IT. We fell somewhat short on 
completing absolutely everything due to the fact that we pretty much switched projects half-way through the semester. As stated in the 
conclusion, we ran into some problems with our first project so after we knew we wanted to switch projects it was already close to the 
half-way point in the semester. In turn, all the work we were doing was pretty much at a double time pace to make sure we had a site 
that would be viable for the final presentation and something we could all four be proud of at the end.


// Nick part

One of the biggest challenges we faced in our software development project was managing the scope of the project. We had a clear vision of what we wanted to achieve, 
but as we began working on the project, we realized that our initial plans were too ambitious and would take significantly longer to complete than we had anticipated.
We had to make the difficult decision to scale back on some of our initial plans and focus on completing the core functionality of the software. 
This was challenging as it required us to prioritize and make difficult choices about what features to include and what to leave out. We had planned to include a "trends" page,
where we would provide information about usage rates of different classrooms over time. We ended up prioritizing the main functions of the project over this feature.
We also had to make sure that the final product still met the needs of our target audience, even with the reduced scope. To help move the project along quicker, we held regular team meetings 
outside of class to help keep each other accountable. It was also helpful for our project to ensure that clear communication channels were in place, in the form of a text groupchat where we posted regular updates.
We also assigned specific tasks and responsibilities to each team member, and provided support and guidance as was necessary. Through this approach, we were able to keep the team on track,
and tie in all of our different parts into one project. Despite these challenges, we were able to successfully complete the project and deliver a functional product.

The overall goal of our project was to increase the efficiency of podium checks for the IT department. This is accomplished by using a few key features.
The first feature is that the software allows for the easy creation and distribution of student groups and room assignments every week, as opposed to creating those lists manually.
The second feature, and in my opinion the most important feature, is that the software will dynamically create a list to checks that should be completed in each room. 
These checks will be customized based off of the equipment in each room to ensure that the students are accurately checking what is installed in the room. This will also allow for non-standard rooms, 
such as Gibble auditorium, to be included inside of this podium check.
